Add docs for graphs (#1767)
oneapi-src/oneDAL: docs/source/api/data-management/graphs.rst

:term:`reference-counted <Reference-counted object>`:

1. The instance stores a pointer to the graph :capterm:`topology`
   and :capterm:`attributes <Attribute>` of vertices and edges.

2. The reference count indicating how many graph objects refer to the same implementation.

3. The graph increments the reference count
   for it to be equal to the number of graph objects sharing the same implementation.

4. The graph decrements the reference count when the
   graph goes out of the scope. If the reference count is zero, the graph
   frees its implementation.

.. _api_graph_traits:

Graph traits
------------
   
Graph traits is a data type that defines the data model, a set of types
associated with the graph, used by processing and service functionality.

Type graph_traits shall be specialized for each graph by following the pattern
below.

.. code-block:: cpp

   template <typename Graph>
   struct graph_traits {
      using graph_type = ...;
      using allocator_type = ...;
      ...
   };

.. .. namespace:: oneapi::dal::preview
.. .. struct:: graph_traits

The full list of types defined in ``graph_traits<G>`` is in the table below:

> .. _graph traits types:

Author: ```suggestion
.. _graph_traits_types:
```

     - The type of the edge :capterm:`attribute <Attribute>` values
     - ``std::int32``, ``double``, :ref:`Empty value <api_empty_value>`  
   * - ``GraphValue``
     - The type of the graph :capterm:`attribute <Attribute>` value
     - :ref:`Empty value <api_empty_value>`  
   * - ``IndexType``
     - The type of the :capterm:`vertex indices <Vertex index>`
     - ``std::int32`` 
   * - ``Allocator``
     - The type of a graph allocator
     - C++17 (ISO/IEC 14882:2017) compliant allocator

:ref:`Empty value <api_empty_value>` tag structure is used to define 
the absence of a specified attribute of a graph.

.. _api_empty_value:

.. onedal_class:: oneapi::dal::preview::empty_value

Graph class contains the default and the move constructor as well as the move assignment operator.
The graph is accessed using the :ref:`service functions <api_graph_service>`.

.. list-table:: 
  :widths: 30 70 
  :header-rows: 1

  * - ``graph_type`` method
    - Description
  * - Default constructor
    - Constructs an empty graph object 
  * - Move constructor
    - Swaps implementation  
  * - Move assignment
    - Swaps implementation 

.. _api_graph_traits:

Graph traits
------------
   

> Graph traits is a data type that defines the data model, a set of types

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Graph traits is a data type that defines the data model and a set of types
```

.. *
.. *     http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
.. *
.. * Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
.. * distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
.. * WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
.. * See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
.. * limitations under the License.
.. *******************************************************************************/

.. highlight:: cpp

.. _api_graphs:

======
Graphs
======

Refer to :ref:`Developer Guide: Graphs <dm_graphs>`.

.. _graph_programming_interface:

---------------------
Programming interface
---------------------

All types and functions in this section are declared in the
``oneapi::dal::preview`` namespace and are available via inclusion of the
``oneapi/dal/graph/common.hpp`` header file.

Graph
-----

The :txtref:`graph` concept is represented by the types with the ``_graph`` suffix and all of them are
:term:`reference-counted <Reference-counted object>`:

1. The instance stores pointers to the graph :capterm:`topology`
   and :capterm:`attributes <Attribute>` of vertices and edges.

> 2. The reference count indicating how many graph objects refer to the same implementation.

Author: ```suggestion
2. The reference count indicates how many graph objects refer to the same implementation.
```

3. The graph increments the reference count
   for it to be equal to the number of graph objects sharing the same implementation.

4. The graph decrements the reference count when the
   graph goes out of the scope. If the reference count is zero, the graph
   frees its implementation.

.. _api_graph_template_type:

The :txtref:`graph` types are defined as templated classes:

.. code-block:: cpp

  template <typename VertexValue,
            typename EdgeValue,
            typename GraphValue,
            typename IndexType,
            typename Allocator>
  class [graph_name]_graph;

.. .. namespace:: oneapi::dal::preview

> .. .. struct:: graph_traits

Author: I've left comments on similar lines: is this supposed to be here? these lines are commented out and are not showing in the output

Reviewer: Got it. I thought you've left comments for each similar line

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

.. list-table:: 
   :widths: 20 40 40 
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Type name
     - Description
     - Supported types
   * - ``VertexValue``

>      - Type of the vertex :capterm:`attribute <Attribute>` values
>      - :ref:`Empty value <api_empty_value>`
>    * - ``EdgeValue``
>      - Type of the edge :capterm:`attribute <Attribute>` values
>      - ``std::int32``, ``double``, :ref:`Empty value <api_empty_value>`  
>    * - ``GraphValue``
>      - Type of the graph :capterm:`attribute <Attribute>` value
>      - :ref:`Empty value <api_empty_value>`  
>    * - ``IndexType``
>      - Type of the :capterm:`vertex indices <Vertex index>`
>      - ``std::int32`` 
>    * - ``Allocator``
>      - graph allocator type.
>      - C++17 (ISO/IEC 14882:2017) compliant allocator

Author: ```suggestion
     - The type of the vertex :capterm:`attribute <Attribute>` values
     - :ref:`Empty value <api_empty_value>`
   * - ``EdgeValue``
     - The type of the edge :capterm:`attribute <Attribute>` values
     - ``std::int32``, ``double``, :ref:`Empty value <api_empty_value>`  
   * - ``GraphValue``
     - The type of the graph :capterm:`attribute <Attribute>` value
     - :ref:`Empty value <api_empty_value>`  
   * - ``IndexType``
     - The type of the :capterm:`vertex indices <Vertex index>`
     - ``std::int32`` 
   * - ``Allocator``
     - The type of a graph allocator
     - C++17 (ISO/IEC 14882:2017) compliant allocator
```

:ref:`Empty value <api_empty_value>` tag structure is used to define 

> the absence of specified attribute of graph.

Author: ```suggestion
the absence of a specified attribute of a graph.
```

.. _api_empty_value:

.. onedal_class:: oneapi::dal::preview::empty_value

> Graph class contains default and move constructor, assignment.

Author: ```suggestion
Graph class contains the default and the move constructor as well as the move assignment function.
```

`assignment` -- maybe `move assignment operator`. `move assignment function` or something like this? currently this is mot grammatically correct

The graph is accessed using the :ref:`service functions <api_graph_service>`.

.. list-table:: 
  :widths: 30 70 
  :header-rows: 1

  * - ``graph_type`` method
    - Description
  * - Default constructor
    - Constructs an empty graph object 
  * - Move constructor
    - Swaps implementation  
  * - Move assignment

>     - Swaps implementation 

Author: `Swaps implementation` -- either `Swaps implementations` or specify what it swaps the implementation for. because grammatically what you have now is incorrect

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Creates a new graph instance and moves implementations from another one into it  
  * - Move assignment
    - Swaps the implementation of this object and another one 
```

Author: ```suggestion
    - Creates a new graph instance and moves the implementation from another instance into this one  
  * - Move assignment
    - Swaps the implementation of this object and another one 
```

     - ``std::int32``, ``double``, :ref:`Empty value <api_empty_value>`  
   * - ``GraphValue``
     - Type of the graph :capterm:`attribute <Attribute>` value
     - :ref:`Empty value <api_empty_value>`  
   * - ``IndexType``
     - Type of the :capterm:`vertex indices <Vertex index>`
     - ``std::int32`` 
   * - ``Allocator``
     - graph allocator type.
     - C++17 (ISO/IEC 14882:2017) compliant allocator

:ref:`Empty value <api_empty_value>` tag structure is used to define 
the absence of specified attribute of graph.

.. _api_empty_value:

.. onedal_class:: oneapi::dal::preview::empty_value

Graph class contains default and move constructor, assignment.
The graph is accessed using the :ref:`service functions <api_graph_service>`.

.. list-table:: 
  :widths: 30 70 
  :header-rows: 1

  * - ``graph_type`` method
    - Description
  * - Default constructor
    - Constructs an empty graph object 
  * - Move constructor
    - Swaps implementation  
  * - Move assignment
    - Swaps implementation 

.. _api_graph_traits:

Graph traits
------------
   
Graph traits is a data type that defines the data model, a set of types

> associated with the graph, used by processing and service functionality.

Author: `used by processing and service functionality` what this refers to?

Reviewer: You mean that some link is required here? If yes, processing is not available in docs right now(algos). I can add link for service.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
associated with the graph, used by processing and :txtref:`service functionality <api_graph_service>`.
```

Author: no I didn't mean it as in link :) sorry

I meant: that part of the sentence seems disconnected from the beginning of the sentence. It's not clear what exactly is used by processing and service functionality. The data model? 
Also: is `a set of types associated with the graph` a definition of a data model?

Type graph_traits shall be specialized for each graph by following the pattern

> below.

Author: this is clearly from specs, our docs are targeting developers not implementers

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Type graph_traits are specialized for each graph by following the pattern
below.
```

Author: yes, your suggestion makes it better, but I'm curious if overall this is relevant info in the dev guide

Reviewer: My  logic is to have general description of graph and its related types in the common graph part as it is done for tables. This description is required since we have not got parent class or something like table base class for graphs. Thus, I used sentences like  it is shown above.

Author: ok, let's go with your suggestion

.. code-block:: cpp

   template <typename G>
   struct graph_traits {
      using graph_type = ...;
      using allocator_type = ...;
      ...
   };

.. .. namespace:: oneapi::dal::preview

> .. .. struct:: graph_traits

Author: note that these lines are commented out

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

The full list of types defined in ``graph_traits<G>`` is in the table below:

.. _graph_traits_types:

.. list-table:: 
   :widths: 20 40 20 20
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Type, ``graph_traits<G>::``
     - Description
     - :ref:`Undirected Adjacency Vector Graph <api_undirected_adjacency_vector_graph>`
     - :ref:`Directed Adjacency Vector Graph <api_directed_adjacency_vector_graph>`
   * - ``graph_type``

>      - Type of the graph ``G``

Author: ```suggestion
     - The type of the graph ``G``
```

     - ``undirected_adjacency_vector_graph<VertexValue, EdgeValue, GraphValue, IndexType, Allocator>``
     - ``directed_adjacency_vector_graph<VertexValue, EdgeValue, GraphValue, IndexType, Allocator>``
   * - ``allocator_type``

>      - Type of the allocator of the graph ``G``

Author: ```suggestion
     - The type of the allocator of the graph ``G``
```

     - ``Allocator`` :ref:`[1] <GraphTemplateTypes>`
     - ``Allocator`` :ref:`[1] <GraphTemplateTypes>`
   * - ``graph_user_value_type``

>      - Type of the :capterm:`attribute` of the graph ``G``

Author: ```suggestion
     - The type of the :capterm:`attribute` of the graph ``G``
```

     - ``GraphValue`` :ref:`[1] <GraphTemplateTypes>`
     - ``GraphValue`` :ref:`[1] <GraphTemplateTypes>`
   * - ``const_graph_user_value_type``

>      - Constant type of the :capterm:`attribute` of the graph ``G``

Author: ```suggestion
     - The constant type of the :capterm:`attribute` of the graph ``G``
```

     - ``const GraphValue`` :ref:`[1] <GraphTemplateTypes>`
     - ``const GraphValue`` :ref:`[1] <GraphTemplateTypes>`
   * - ``vertex_type``

>      - Type of the vertices in the graph ``G``

Author: ```suggestion
     - The type of the vertices in the graph ``G``
```

     - ``IndexType`` :ref:`[1] <GraphTemplateTypes>`
     - ``IndexType`` :ref:`[1] <GraphTemplateTypes>`
   * - ``vertex_iterator``
     - Type of the vertex iterator in the graph ``G``
     - ``vertex_type*``
     - ``vertex_type*``
   * - ``const_vertex_iterator``

>      -  Constant type of the vertex iterator in the graph ``G``

Author: ```suggestion
     -  The constant type of the vertex iterator in the graph ``G``
```

     - ``const vertex_type*``
     - ``const vertex_type*``
   * - ``vertex_size_type``

>      - Type of the index of the vertices in the graph ``G``

Author: ```suggestion
     - The type of the vertex indices in the graph ``G``
```

     - ``std::int64_t``
     - ``std::int64_t``
   * - ``vertex_user_value_type``
     - Type of the vertex :capterm:`attribute <Attribute>` of the graph ``G``
     - ``VertexValue`` :ref:`[1] <GraphTemplateTypes>`
     - ``VertexValue`` :ref:`[1] <GraphTemplateTypes>`
   * - ``edge_type``

>      - Type of edges in the graph ``G``

Author: ```suggestion
     - The type of edges in the graph ``G``
```

     - ``std::int64_t``
     - ``std::int64_t``
   * - ``edge_iterator``

>      - Type of the edge iterator in the graph ``G``

Author: ```suggestion
     - The type of the edge iterator in the graph ``G``
```

     - *Not available* 
     - *Not available*  
   * - ``const_edge_iterator``

>      - Constant type of the edge iterator in the graph ``G``

Author: ```suggestion
     - The constant type of the edge iterator in the graph ``G``
```

     - *Not available*  
     - *Not available* 
   * - ``edge_size_type``

>      - Type of the index of the edges in the graph ``G`` 

Author: ```suggestion
     - The type of the edge indices in the graph ``G`` 
```

     - ``std::int64_t``
     - ``std::int64_t``
   * - ``edge_user_value_type``

>      - Type of  edge :capterm:`attribute <Attribute>` 

Author: ```suggestion
     - The type of edge :capterm:`attribute <Attribute>` 
```

     - ``EdgeValue`` :ref:`[1] <GraphTemplateTypes>`
     - ``EdgeValue`` :ref:`[1] <GraphTemplateTypes>`  
   * - ``vertex_edge_size_type``

>      - Type of the vertex neighbors indices 

Author: ```suggestion
     - The type of the vertex neighbors indices 
```

     - ``std::int64_t``
     - *Not available*     
   * - ``vertex_outward_edge_size_type``

>      - Type of the vertex outward neighbors indices 

Author: ```suggestion
     - The type of the vertex outward neighbors indices 
```

     - *Not available*
     - ``std::int64_t``
   * - ``vertex_edge_iterator_type``

>      - Type of the vertex neighbors iterator 

Author: ```suggestion
     - The type of the vertex neighbors iterator 
```

     - ``IndexType*`` :ref:`[1] <GraphTemplateTypes>`
     - *Not available*    
   * - ``const_vertex_edge_iterator_type``

>      - Type of the vertex neighbors constant iterator 

Author: ```suggestion
     - The type of the vertex neighbors constant iterator 
```

     - ``const IndexType*`` :ref:`[1] <GraphTemplateTypes>`
     - *Not available*    
   * - ``vertex_outward_edge_iterator_type``

>      - Type of the vertex outward neighbors iterator 

Author: ```suggestion
     - The type of the vertex outward neighbors iterator 
```

     - *Not available*
     - ``IndexType*`` :ref:`[1] <GraphTemplateTypes>`    
   * - ``const_vertex_outward_edge_iterator_type``

>      - Type of the vertex outward neighbors constant iterator 

Author: ```suggestion
     - The type of the vertex outward neighbors constant iterator 
```

     - *Not available*
     - ``const IndexType*`` :ref:`[1] <GraphTemplateTypes>`
   * - ``vertex_edge_range``

>      - Type of the range of vertex neighbors 

Author: ```suggestion
     - The type of the range of vertex neighbors 
```

     - ``std::pair<IndexType*, IndexType*>`` :ref:`[1] <GraphTemplateTypes>`
     - *Not available*    
   * - ``const_vertex_edge_range``

>      - Type of the constant range of vertex neighbors 

Author: ```suggestion
     - The type of the constant range of vertex neighbors 
```

     - ``std::pair<IndexType*, IndexType*>`` :ref:`[1] <GraphTemplateTypes>`
     - *Not available*    
   * - ``vertex_outward_edge_range``

>      - Type of the range of vertex outward neighbors 

Author: ```suggestion
     - The type of the range of vertex outward neighbors 
```

     - *Not available*
     - ``std::pair<IndexType*, IndexType*>`` :ref:`[1] <GraphTemplateTypes>`    
   * - ``const_vertex_outward_edge_range``

>      - Type of the constant range of vertex outward neighbors 

Author: ```suggestion
     - The type of the constant range of vertex outward neighbors 
```

.. *
.. * Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
.. * you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.. * You may obtain a copy of the License at
.. *
.. *     http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
.. *
.. * Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
.. * distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
.. * WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
.. * See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
.. * limitations under the License.
.. *******************************************************************************/

.. highlight:: cpp

.. _api_graphs:

======
Graphs
======

Refer to :ref:`Developer Guide: Graphs <dm_graphs>`.

.. _graph_programming_interface:

---------------------
Programming interface
---------------------

All types and functions in this section are declared in the
``oneapi::dal::preview`` namespace and be available via inclusion of the
``oneapi/dal/graph/common.hpp`` header file.

.. _graph_traits:

Graph traits
------------

graph_traits defines the core data model required for the functions and 

> algorithms in this proposal. It defines a set of value types and ranges for a graph data structure used by the functions and algorithms in this proposal. While usable as-is, they are typically used by the template type aliases, such as vertex_edge_range<G>, edge_user_value_type<G> and edge_iterator<G> in algorithms.

Author: please don't make lines that long. the recommended line length is ~80 characters
